[doc] Document common issues (#1397)
DataDog/dd-trace-rb: docs/GettingStarted.md

| `OpenTracing::FORMAT_TEXT_MAP` | Yes        |                        |
| `OpenTracing::FORMAT_RACK`     | Yes        | Because of the loss of resolution in the Rack format, please note that baggage items with names containing either upper case characters or `-` will be converted to lower case and `_` in a round-trip respectively. We recommend avoiding these characters or accommodating accordingly on the receiving end. |
| `OpenTracing::FORMAT_BINARY`   | No         |                        |

## Common issues

### Payload too large

If you suspect that not all traces from your application are being captured, this might be due to traces that are too large to be processed.

> If your application creates long running traces, measured in minutes, or traces with a thousands of operations, such traces can go over our processing limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your application creates long-running traces, measured in minutes, or traces with thousands of operations, such traces can go over Datadogs processing limit.
```

> You can enable [debug mode](#tracer-settings) and check if messages similar to `"Dropping trace. Payload too large"` are being emitted. Keep in mind that debug mode is very verbose. You can also inspect the [Datadog agent logs](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-log-files/) for similar messages.

Reviewer 2: I'm curious if we could do better here -- would it be possible for us to still send the top-level trace to the agent/back-end, with some metadata element indicating that there's missing data?

Author: There's an internal work-in-progress RFC documenting how to tag spans as effective root or not. There's some special logic needed around its implementation, but it's something that we are working on.

> For cases where the payload is too large, you have the option to enable [partial_flush](#tracer-settings) in the tracer. This will break down large traces into smaller chunks that get streamed to Datadog. The side-effect of partial flushing is that service metrics will count a single large trace multiple times: once per chunk streamed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For cases where the payload is too large, enable a [partial_flush](#tracer-settings) in the tracer. A partial flush breaks down large traces into smaller chunks that get streamed to Datadog. The side-effect of partial flushing is that service metrics will count a single large trace multiple times: once per chunk streamed.
```

### Stack level too deep

`ddtrace` uses [Module#prepend](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.0/Module.html#method-i-prepend) when instrumenting gems, as this approach allows for non-competing overriding of the same method by different parties.

A few libraries use [alias](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.0/doc/syntax/miscellaneous_rdoc.html#label-alias) and [Module#alias_method](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.0/Module.html#method-i-alias_method) for overriding methods, which destructively replaces the original method being overridden. This approach is also incompatible with `Module#prepend` overriding, causing, for example, `SystemStackError`.

There's no simple solution if you are seeing `SystemStackError` being raised, but a few libraries have known workarounds:

> * `rack-mini-profiler`: [Net::HTTP stack level too deep errors](https://github.com/MiniProfiler/rack-mini-profiler#nethttp-stack-level-too-deep-errors).

Reviewer 2: A few suggestions for this:

* Should we ask users to always report us when they find these kinds of issues, so that we can look into them?
* Perhaps we could link every known item in the list with an issue ticket on our side. This way, customers have a centralized location where they can see more information, as well as add comments/ask questions if need be.

Finally, I won't block this PR with this, but I'm convinced we can do better than just document this issue for customers for the issues we already know of.

For instance, the `rack-mini-profiler` patch can be detected:

```ruby
require 'net/http'
require 'rack-mini-profiler'

example = Net::HTTP.allocate
puts example.method(:request).source_location.inspect
```

Outputs:

```bash
$ ruby detect-rack-mini-profiler.rb
["/Users/ivo.anjo/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.7.2/gems/rack-mini-profiler-2.3.1/lib/patches/net_patches.rb", 16
```

Can we go from detection to avoiding the load of our patches when we find that they're going to conflict? Even if it doesn't work in every case, I think catching the few we can and presenting a nice error message rather than breaking the customer's app seems valuable and builds trust in our product.

| `OpenTracing::FORMAT_TEXT_MAP` | Yes        |                        |
| `OpenTracing::FORMAT_RACK`     | Yes        | Because of the loss of resolution in the Rack format, please note that baggage items with names containing either upper case characters or `-` will be converted to lower case and `_` in a round-trip respectively. We recommend avoiding these characters or accommodating accordingly on the receiving end. |
| `OpenTracing::FORMAT_BINARY`   | No         |                        |

> ## Common issues

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Known issues and suggested configurations
```

### Payload too large

> By default, Datadog limits the size of trace payloads to prevent memory overhead within instrumented applications.  However, if your application creates long running traces, measured in minutes, or traces with thousands of operations, these traces may not be sent to Datadog due to these size limits.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, Datadog limits the size of trace payloads to prevent memory overhead within instrumented applications.  If your application creates long running traces, measured in minutes, or traces with thousands of operations, these traces may not be sent to Datadog due to these size limits.
```

> By default, Datadog limits the size of trace payloads to prevent memory overhead within instrumented applications. However, if your application creates long-running traces, measured in minutes, or traces with thousands of operations, these traces may not be sent to Datadog due to these size limits.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, Datadog limits the size of trace payloads to prevent memory overhead within instrumented applications. However, if your application creates long-running traces, or traces with thousands of operations, these traces may not be sent to Datadog due to these size limits.
```

> By default, Datadog limits the size of trace payloads to prevent memory overhead within instrumented applications.  However, if your application creates long running traces, measured in minutes, or traces with thousands of operations, these traces may not be sent to Datadog due to these size limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Datadog limits the size of trace payloads to prevent memory overhead within instrumented applications. However, if your application creates long-running traces, measured in minutes, or traces with thousands of operations, these traces may not be sent to Datadog due to these size limits.
```

> To confirm this behavior is occurring, enable [debug mode](#tracer-settings) and check if messages similar to `"Dropping trace. Payload too large"` are being emitted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Enable [debug mode](#tracer-settings) to check if messages containing `"Dropping trace. Payload too large"` are being logged.
```

> If traces are missing and to confirm this behavior is occurring, enable [debug mode](#tracer-settings) and check if messages similar to `"Dropping trace. Payload too large"` are being emitted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If traces are missing, enable [debug mode](#tracer-settings) and check if messages containing `"Dropping trace. Payload too large"` are logged.
```

> If traces are missing and to confirm this behavior is occurring, enable [debug mode](#tracer-settings) and check if messages similar to `"Dropping trace. Payload too large"` are being emitted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To confirm this behavior is occurring, enable [debug mode](#tracer-settings) and check if messages similar to `"Dropping trace. Payload too large"` are being emitted.
```

> Debug mode is verbose, and Datadog does not recommend leaving this enabled, so disable it after confirming. You can inspect the [Datadog Agent logs](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-log-files/) for similar messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since debug mode is verbose, Datadog does not recommend leaving this enabled or enabling this in production. Disable it after confirming. You can inspect the [Datadog Agent logs](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-log-files/) for similar messages.
```

> Debug mode is very verbose and it is not recommended to leave this enabled, so disable it after confirming. You can also inspect the [Datadog Agent logs](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-log-files/) for similar messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debug mode is verbose, and Datadog does not recommend leaving this enabled, so disable it after confirming. You can inspect the [Datadog Agent logs](https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-log-files/) for similar messages.
```

> If you have confirmed traces are dropped due to large payloads, enable the [partial_flush](#tracer-settings) setting to break down large traces into smaller chunks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have confirmed that traces are dropped due to large payloads, then enable the [partial_flush](#tracer-settings) setting to break down large traces into smaller chunks.
```

> Once you have confirmed traces are being dropped due to large payloads, enable the [partial_flush](#tracer-settings) setting as a tracer configuration. This will break down large traces into smaller chunks that get streamed to Datadog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you have confirmed traces are being dropped due to large payloads, enable the [partial_flush](#tracer-settings) setting. This will break down large traces into smaller chunks that get streamed to Datadog.
```

### Stack level too deep

`ddtrace` uses [Module#prepend](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.0/Module.html#method-i-prepend) when instrumenting gems, as this approach allows for non-competing overriding of the same method by other libraries present in the same application.

The presence of other libraries that use [alias](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.0/doc/syntax/miscellaneous_rdoc.html#label-alias) or [Module#alias_method](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.0/Module.html#method-i-alias_method) to override methods can cause issues to manifest in your application, often referred to as “noisy neighbor” issues.  The two methods above destructively replace the original method being overridden.  This approach is also incompatible with `Module#prepend` overriding, causing, for example, `SystemStackError`.

A few libraries have known workarounds for these types of noisy neighbor issues:

* `rack-mini-profiler`: [Net::HTTP stack level too deep errors](https://github.com/MiniProfiler/rack-mini-profiler#nethttp-stack-level-too-deep-errors).

> For libraries without a known workaround, consider removing the library using `alias` or `Module#alias_method`, separating libraries into different environments for testing, or creating a github issue with the affected libraries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For libraries without a known workaround, consider removing the library using `alias` or `Module#alias_method` or separating libraries into different environments for testing.
```

> ### Stack level too deep
> 
> `ddtrace` uses [Module#prepend](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.0/Module.html#method-i-prepend) when instrumenting gems, as this approach allows for non-competing overriding of the same method by other libraries present in the same application.
> 
> The presence of other libraries that use [alias](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.0/doc/syntax/miscellaneous_rdoc.html#label-alias) or [Module#alias_method](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.0/Module.html#method-i-alias_method) to override methods can cause issues to manifest in your application, often referred to as “noisy neighbor” issues.  The two methods above destructively replace the original method being overridden.  This approach is also incompatible with `Module#prepend` overriding, causing, for example, `SystemStackError`.
> 
> A few libraries have known workarounds for these types of noisy neighbor issues:
> 
> * `rack-mini-profiler`: [Net::HTTP stack level too deep errors](https://github.com/MiniProfiler/rack-mini-profiler#nethttp-stack-level-too-deep-errors).
> 
> For libraries without a known workaround, consider removing the library using `alias` or `Module#alias_method` or separating libraries into different environments for testing.
> 
> For any further questions on these issues or to report a noisy neighbor issue so we can investigate if Datadog is able to mitigate the issue, please [reach out to Datadog support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help)

Reviewer 4: My suggestion for a different take on this section. Key difference is story telling in temporal order 1) why we patch, 2) historically how this was done, 3) how it's done differently today, 4) why it's a conflict, 5) what to do about it.

```suggestion
### Stack level too deep

Datadog tracing collects trace data by adding instrumentation into other common libraries (e.g. Rails, Rack, etc.) Some libraries provide APIs to add this instrumentation, but some do not. In order to add instrumentation into libraries lacking an instrumentation API, Datadog uses a technique called "monkey-patching" to modify the code of that library.

In Ruby version 1.9.3 and earlier, "monkey-patching" often involved the use of [`alias_method`](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.0/Module.html#method-i-alias_method), also known as *method rewriting*, to destructively replace existing Ruby methods. However, this practice would often create conflicts & errors if two libraries attempted to "rewrite" the same method. (e.g. two different APM packages trying to instrument the same method.)

In Ruby 2.0, the [`Module#prepend`](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.0/Module.html#method-i-prepend) feature was introduced. This feature avoids destructive method rewriting and allows multiple "monkey patches" on the same method. Consequently, it has become the safest, preferred means to "monkey patch" code.

Datadog instrumentation almost exclusively uses the `Module#prepend` feature to add instrumentation non-destructively. However, some libraries (typically those supporting Ruby < 2.0) still use `alias_method` which can create conflicts with Datadog instrumentation, often resulting in `SystemStackError` or `stack level too deep` errors.

As the implementation of `alias_method` exists within those libraries, Datadog generally cannot fix them. However, some libraries have known workarounds:

* `rack-mini-profiler`: [Net::HTTP stack level too deep errors](https://github.com/MiniProfiler/rack-mini-profiler#nethttp-stack-level-too-deep-errors).

For libraries without a known workaround, consider removing the library using `alias` or `Module#alias_method` or separating libraries into different environments for testing.

For any further questions or to report an occurence of this issue, please [reach out to Datadog support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I still kinda think we should ask the customers to report the issue to us first, as otherwise we may not notice that a customer is having issues, and we're the ones that can have more context to go to upstream, ask them to fix, etc.

> For any further questions on these issues, please [reach out to Datadog support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For any further questions on these issues or to report a noisy neighbor issue so we can investigate if Datadog is able to mitigate the issue, please [reach out to Datadog support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help)
```
